h1. NEWS

h2. 0.9.7: 2012-12-26

h3. Improvements

 * [DocumentTask] Added DocumentTask#translate_language= to specifiy
   single language code for translation of documents.
 * [DocumentTask] Updated documents about #translate_languages= and
    #original_language=.
 * [ReferenceTask] Updated documents about #translate_languages and
   #original_language.

h3. Changes

 * [DocumentTask] Received only Array of languages codes by
   #translate_languages=.

h3. Fixes

 * For ranguba project: removed remained piwik tag in the footer template.

h2. 0.9.6: 2012-12-19

h3. Improvements

 * [ReferenceTask] Used GetText::Tools::MsgMerge.run instead of
   GNU msgmerge.
 * [DocumentTask] Added #original_language for translation
   target. Its default value is user's current locale.
 * [DocumentTask] Added #translate_languages to translate document.
   Its default value is English if user's current locale isn't it,
   otherwise default value is not specified.

h3. Changes

 * Use user's current locale as the default translation targets
   instead of Japanese.
 * For Ranguba project:
   * [template] Removed needless Piwik tag.
   * Followed the move from rubyforge.org to ranguba.org.
   * [ReleaseTask] Removed rubyforge support.

h3. Fixes

 * [ReferenceTask] Removed needless patch for YARD. This patch is
   needless from YARD 0.8.3.

h2. 0.9.5: 2012-08-30

h3. Improvements

 * [reference-task] Created and update a pot/po file by YARD::CLI::I18n instead of xml2po command.
 * [reference-task] Translated HTML documents with a po file, source files(lib/**/*.rb, ext/**/*.c) and extra files(doc/text/*.*) and README file in spec.
 * [reference-task] Used GetText::Tools::MsgInit.run instead of msginit in GNU gettext.
 * Assigned default files for HTML documents by DocumentTask to YARDTask and ReferenceTask.
 * [tutorial] Added example to use gemspec with Gem::Specification.new.
 * Defined accessors for readme in YARDTask and ReferenceTask.
 * Updated documents.

h3. Changes

 * [reference-task] Created the po directory under specified directory instead of "doc".

h3. Fixes

 * [document-task] Fixed not to require block on new.
 * Fixed not to run blocks when objects of YARDTask and ReferenceTask are initialized.
 * [reference-task] Used Rake::Task to invoke rake tasks instead of another process.

h3. Thanks

 * tetradice
 * SHIMADA Koji

h2. 0.9.4: 2011-09-27

h3. Improvements

* Saved password inputted once in same process.

h3. Changes

* Checked ruby version before run task to build gem.

h3. Fixes

* Fixed bug of posting no news to RubyForge in task "release:rubyforge:news:post".

h2. 0.9.3: 2011-09-22

h3. Improvements

* Printed newline after getting password.
* Added task "release:rubyforge:news:post" to post news to RubyForge.

h3. Changes

* Changed name of tasks for update po file for each languages.
(For example, "translate:po:ja:update" was changed to "translate:po:update:ja".)

h3. Fixes

* Applied version number to tag message instead of "version".

h2. 0.9.2: 2011-08-29

h3. Improvements

* Supported doc/text/ nonexistence case.
* Supported yardoc options customize.
* Supported xml2po mode customize.
* Used only lib/**/*.rb as document target by default.

h2. 0.9.1: 2011-08-25

h3. Improvements

* created package in rubyforge if package isn't created.
* added Packnga::ReleaseTask#tag_message.
* added Packnga::ReleaseTask#publish_options.
* added attribute in DocumentTask for getting .htaccess file path.
* added reference:publicaton:generate.
(This task is run after prepareing to publish references.)

h3. Fixes

* fix bug release:reference:publish stop.
* checked group_ids before add_releasing tar.gz to rubyforge.
* wrote only sentence for redirect to english page in .htaccess file.
(don't write sentence for redirect tutorial page.)

h2. 0.9.0: 2011-08-19

The first release!
